@Transient vs @JsonIgnore
The @Transient and @JsonIgnore annotations serve different purposes in Java, particularly in the context of
persistence with JPA (Java Persistence API) and serialization with JSON libraries like Jackson.
Below is a comparison of the two annotations, highlighting their differences and use cases:

1. @Transient
Purpose:

The @Transient annotation is used to indicate that a specific field in a JPA entity should not be persisted
to the database. It tells the persistence provider (like Hibernate) to ignore this field when generating SQL
statements for storing or updating data.
Usage Context:

Primarily used in the context of JPA/Hibernate for entities.
Example:

import javax.persistence.Entity;
import javax.persistence.Id;
import javax.persistence.Transient;

@Entity
public class User {
    @Id
    private Long id;
    private String name;

    @Transient
    private String temporaryData; // Will not be stored in the database

    // Getters and Setters
}
Behavior:

When the entity is saved or updated, the field annotated with @Transient will be excluded from the persistence context, so its value will not be stored in the database.
2. @JsonIgnore
Purpose:

The @JsonIgnore annotation is used to indicate that a specific property of an object
should be ignored during serialization and deserialization processes when converting Java objects to JSON
and vice versa.

Usage Context:

Primarily used in the context of JSON serialization/deserialization with libraries like Jackson.
Example:

import com.fasterxml.jackson.annotation.JsonIgnore;

public class User {
    private Long id;
    private String name;

    @JsonIgnore
    private String sensitiveData; // Will not be included in JSON output

    // Getters and Setters
}
Behavior:

When a User object is serialized to JSON using Jackson, the sensitiveData field will be omitted
from the resulting JSON. Similarly, if JSON input includes this field, it will be ignored during
deserialization.

Key Differences
Feature	@Transient	@JsonIgnore
Purpose	Prevents field from being persisted to the database	Prevents field from being included in JSON serialization/deserialization
Usage Context	JPA/Hibernate entities	JSON processing with Jackson or similar libraries
Impact on Persistence	Field is ignored by persistence provider	No impact on persistence; only affects JSON output
Example Use Case	Temporary calculations or session-specific data	Sensitive information that should not be exposed in API responses
Summary
Use @Transient when you want to prevent a field from being stored in the database when using JPA/Hibernate.
Use @JsonIgnore when you want to exclude a field from being serialized into JSON or deserialized from JSON when using libraries like Jackson.
These annotations help manage how data is handled in your application, ensuring that sensitive or unnecessary information is appropriately excluded from persistence or API responses.


Explain usage of Kubernetes?
Kubernetes, often abbreviated as K8s, is an open-source container orchestration platform designed to automate
the deployment, scaling, and operation of application containers. It has become a standard in managing
containerized applications across various environments, from development to production.

Here are some primary uses and benefits of Kubernetes:
1. Container Orchestration
Kubernetes manages clusters of containers, automating the deployment, scaling, and management of these containers.
This enables organizations to run applications reliably and consistently across different environments.

2. Scaling Applications
Kubernetes allows for dynamic scaling of applications based on demand. It can automatically increase
or decrease the number of running instances of an application (pods) in response to traffic or resource
utilization.

3. Load Balancing
Kubernetes provides built-in load balancing capabilities. It distributes network traffic
evenly across multiple instances of an application, ensuring optimal resource use and preventing any single
instance from becoming a bottleneck.

4. Self-Healing
Kubernetes can automatically replace or restart containers that fail or become unresponsive. This self-healing
feature helps maintain application availability and reliability without manual intervention.

5. Service Discovery and Networking
Kubernetes facilitates service discovery, allowing applications to communicate with one another
seamlessly. It manages internal DNS and provides a way for services to find each other within the cluster.

6. Declarative Configuration
With Kubernetes, you can define the desired state of your applications using YAML or JSON configuration files.
This declarative approach allows for version control, easier rollbacks, and reproducibility of environments.

7. Rolling Updates and Rollbacks
Kubernetes supports rolling updates, enabling you to update applications without downtime.
If issues arise during an update, it can also roll back to a previous stable version automatically.

8. Multi-Cloud and Hybrid Deployments
Kubernetes abstracts the underlying infrastructure, allowing applications to run consistently
across different cloud providers or on-premises environments. This flexibility supports multi-cloud and

9. Resource Management
Kubernetes optimizes resource usage by scheduling containers on nodes based on available resources,
constraints, and priorities. It helps ensure that applications have the necessary resources while maximizing
efficiency.

10. Extensibility and Ecosystem
Kubernetes has a rich ecosystem with many tools and add-ons, such as Helm for package management,
Istio for service mesh capabilities, and Prometheus for monitoring and alerting. Its extensibility allows
users to customize their Kubernetes experience to fit specific needs.

11. Security and Compliance
Kubernetes provides various security features, including role-based access control (RBAC), network policies,
and secrets management.These features help secure applications and comply with regulatory requirements.

Use Cases


Microservices Architecture: Kubernetes is well-suited for deploying and managing microservices-based applications,
where services are loosely coupled and independently deployable.


DevOps Practices: It supports DevOps practices by enabling continuous integration and continuous deployment
(CI/CD) pipelines, facilitating faster development cycles and more reliable releases.


Big Data and Machine Learning: Kubernetes can manage big data and machine learning workloads, allowing for
the orchestration of complex data processing tasks and model training jobs.


Web Applications: Many organizations use Kubernetes to host scalable web applications, leveraging its scaling
and self-healing capabilities to handle variable traffic loads.


In summary, Kubernetes is a powerful platform that simplifies the management of containerized
applications, enhances scalability, availability, and resilience, and supports modern development practices.
Its wide adoption and robust ecosystem make it a critical tool for organizations looking to optimize their
application lifecycle management.

How can we prevent circular dependency in Spring?

Circular dependencies in Spring occur when two or more beans depend on each other, creating a cycle that can
lead to issues during bean initialization. Here are several strategies to prevent and resolve circular
dependencies in Spring:

1. Setter Injection
Instead of using constructor injection, you can use setter injection. This allows Spring to create the beans without needing all dependencies upfront. The dependencies can be injected later through setters.

Example:

@Component
public class A {
    private B b;

    @Autowired
    public void setB(B b) {
        this.b = b;
    }
}

@Component
public class B {
    private A a;

    @Autowired
    public void setA(A a) {
        this.a = a;
    }
}

2. Use @Lazy Annotation
The @Lazy annotation can be applied to one or more beans to indicate that they should be initialized lazily,
meaning that the bean will not be created until it is needed.

Example:

@Component
public class A {
    private final B b;

    @Autowired
    public A(@Lazy B b) {
        this.b = b;
    }
}

@Component
public class B {
    private final A a;

    @Autowired
    public B(@Lazy A a) {
        this.a = a;
    }
}

3. Refactor Code
Consider refactoring your code to eliminate the circular dependency altogether. This could involve creating a new service class that encapsulates shared functionality or breaking down complex components into smaller, more manageable ones.

4. Event Publishing
Using an application event can decouple the beans. Instead of directly calling methods on each other,
one bean can publish an event that the other bean listens to.

Example:

@Component
public class A {
    @Autowired
    private ApplicationEventPublisher publisher;

    public void doSomething() {
        // Logic here
        publisher.publishEvent(new CustomEvent(this));
    }
}

@Component
public class B {
    @EventListener
    public void handleCustomEvent(CustomEvent event) {
        // Handle the event
    }
}
5. Application Context Configuration
In some cases, you can configure the application context to use a specific bean initialization order, but this can lead to tightly coupled code and is generally not recommended.

6. Factory Beans
You can also use factory beans to create instances of the beans. This way, you can control the instantiation process and avoid circular references.

7. Profile-Based Configuration
If applicable, you can define different profiles for different configurations. This allows you to load only necessary beans based on the active profile, potentially avoiding circular dependencies.

Summary
Preventing circular dependencies often involves choosing the right type of dependency injection, refactoring the code structure, and leveraging Spring's
features like lazy initialization and event handling. By applying these strategies, you can effectively
manage and avoid circular dependencies in your Spring applications.

List vs Array?

lists and arrays are both used to store collections of elements, but they have distinct characteristics and use cases. Here’s a detailed comparison:

1. Data Type Flexibility
Array: An array in Java is a fixed-size data structure that can hold a specified number of elements of the same type (e.g., int[], String[]).
 The size of an array is defined when it is created and cannot be changed.
List: A list, typically implemented through the List interface (e.g., ArrayList, LinkedList), can hold elements of the same type but is dynamic in size. You can add or remove elements as needed.
2. Initialization and Size
Array: Arrays must be explicitly declared with a specific size. For example:
int[] numbers = new int[5]; // Array of size 5
List: Lists can be initialized without a predefined size. For example:
List<Integer> numberList = new ArrayList<>(); // Dynamic size

3. Performance
Array: Arrays provide faster access to elements because they are stored in contiguous memory locations.
However, resizing an array requires creating a new array and copying the elements, which can be inefficient.

List: Lists may have overhead due to their dynamic nature, particularly with LinkedList, which has more
complex memory management. However, ArrayList provides good performance for most operations due to its
 underlying array structure.

4. Functionality
Array: Arrays have limited built-in functionality. You can access elements using an index, but they do not provide methods for common operations like adding or removing elements.
List: Lists come with a rich set of methods (e.g., add(), remove(), size(), contains()) that make them easier to use for dynamic collections.
5. Multidimensional Capability
Array: Java supports multidimensional arrays (e.g., int[][]), which are essentially arrays of arrays. However, they are still fixed in size.
List: While you can create a list of lists to simulate a multidimensional structure, this approach is more flexible and allows for varying sizes at each level.

6. Type Safety
Array: Arrays are type-safe and can enforce type checking at compile time. If you try to store a
different type, it will result in a compile-time error.

List: With generics, lists also provide type safety, allowing you to specify the type of elements they
contain (e.g., List<String>).

Summary
In summary, use arrays when you need a fixed-size collection of elements of the same type and require
fast access. Use lists when you need a flexible, dynamic collection that allows for easy modification of
elements and provides a rich set of methods for manipulation. Each has its strengths and is suited to
different programming scenarios in Java.


Which types of methods can't be override?
Ans:- In Java, certain types of methods cannot be overridden due to the rules of inheritance and method resolution.
Here are the key types of methods that cannot be overridden:


      Static Methods: Static methods belong to the class rather than any instance of the class.
      They can be hidden (not overridden) in a subclass by defining a static method with the same name,
      but this does not constitute overriding because the method is resolved based on the reference type,
      not the object type.


      Private Methods: Private methods are not accessible outside their own class, so they cannot be
      overridden in subclasses. Each class has its own private methods, and they are not visible to
      subclasses.


      Final Methods: A method declared as final cannot be overridden. This is intended to prevent subclasses
      from altering the behavior defined in the superclass.


      Constructor Methods: Constructors cannot be overridden because they are not inherited. Each class has
      its own constructor(s), and they are invoked when an object of that class is created.


      Native Methods: While native methods (methods implemented in native code using JNI) can technically be overridden, the actual implementation details may prevent overriding in a meaningful way, depending on the context.


      Methods from final Classes: If a class is declared as final, it cannot be subclassed, and thus, no methods can be overridden.


      Understanding these restrictions is crucial for effective object-oriented programming in Java, especially when designing class hierarchies and ensuring intended behaviors.

What are java solid principles?
Ans:-
    S:- Stands for single responsibility principle(SRP). It means that each class should have a single
    responsibility to work on and not multiple details to handle thus keeping it loosely coupled and
    easily maintainable.

    O: Stands for Open/Closed principle (OCP). It means that every software entities(class, methods,
    modules, etc) are available open to extend but closed for modification. It means that it's fine to
    add new functionalities/features keeping the existing functionalities as it is.

    L: Liskov substitute principle(LSP). It states that the parent classes object should be replaceable by
    the child class object without affecting the program. Thus ensuring that the child class should stand
    in for it's parent class, promoting correct inheritance and interface implementation.

    I: Interface aggregation principle(IAP). It states that the client should not be forced to depend on an
    interface which they do not use. This principle focus on creating smaller more emphasized interfaces
    rather than creating a big interface with too many methods.

    D: Dependency inversion principle(DIP). It suggests that the higher modules should not be dependent on
    the lower modules. This principle advocates that both modules should depend on abstraction(Interfaces)
    thus promoting loose coupling b/w software components.

What do you mean by ACID  properties?
Ans:- ACID is a set of properties that guarantee reliable processing of database transactions. The acronym
stands for:

    Atomicity: Ensures that all operations within a transaction are completed successfully. If any part of
    the transaction fails, the entire transaction is rolled back, and the database remains unchanged.

    Consistency: Ensures that a transaction brings the database from one valid state to another. Any data
    written to the database must be valid according to any combination of rules, including cascades,
    constraints, and any combination thereof.

    Isolation: Ensures that transactions are executed in isolation from each other. This means that the
    intermediate state of a transaction is invisible to other transactions, ensuring that concurrent
    transactions do not interfere with each other.

    Durability: Ensures that once a transaction has been committed, it will remain so, even in the event of
    a system failure. This means that the changes made by a transaction are permanent and cannot be
    undone.

    Understanding and implementing ACID properties is crucial for maintaining data integrity and reliability
    in database systems.

What is the difference between JDBC and JPA?
Ans:- JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) and JPA (Java Persistence API) are both used for database
interaction in Java, but they serve different purposes and have distinct characteristics:

    JDBC:
        Low-level API: JDBC is a low-level API that provides a direct way to interact with a database using
        SQL queries. It is part of the Java Standard Edition (Java SE) and is included in the java.sql
        package.

        SQL-centric: JDBC is SQL-centric, meaning that you write SQL queries to interact with the database.
        This gives you fine-grained control over the database operations but requires more effort to
        manage.

        Manual mapping: With JDBC, you need to manually map database rows to Java objects, which can be
        time-consuming and error-prone.

        Performance: JDBC can be more performant for simple and straightforward database operations
        because it bypasses the abstraction layer provided by higher-level APIs.

    JPA:
        High-level API: JPA is a high-level API that provides an abstraction layer over JDBC. It is part of
        the Java Persistence API specification and is included in the javax.persistence package.

        Object-oriented: JPA is object-oriented, meaning that you interact with the database using Java
        objects rather than SQL queries. This makes it easier to work with and reduces the amount of

IS-A vs HAS-A relationship?
Ans:- IS-A and HAS-A are two fundamental concepts in object-oriented programming that describe
relationships between classes. Understanding these relationships is crucial for designing robust and
maintainable software.

    IS-A Relationship (Inheritance):
        Definition: The IS-A relationship is established through inheritance, where one class (subclass)
        inherits properties and behaviors from another class (superclass).

        Example: Consider a class hierarchy for animals. A Dog class can inherit from an Animal class.
        This means that a Dog IS-A type of Animal.

        Syntax: In Java, the IS-A relationship is established through inheritance. This is done using the
        extends keyword.

    HAS-A Relationship (Composition):
        Definition: The HAS-A relationship is established through composition, where one class (subclass)
        contains an instance of another class (superclass).

        Example: Consider a class hierarchy for a Car. A Car class can have a HAS-A relationship with an
        Engine class. This means that a Car HAS-A Engine.

        Syntax: In Java, the HAS-A relationship is established through composition. This is done by
        declaring an instance of the superclass within the subclass.

In summary, the IS-A relationship is established through inheritance, while the HAS-A relationship is
established through composition. Understanding these relationships helps in designing more modular and
flexible software systems.

What is the difference between Hibernate and JPA?
Ans:- Hibernate and JPA (Java Persistence API) are both used for object-relational mapping (ORM) in Java,
but they serve different purposes and have distinct characteristics:

    JPA:
        Specification: JPA is a specification that defines a standard API for accessing, persisting, and
        managing data between Java objects and a relational database.

        Abstraction: JPA provides an abstraction layer over the underlying database, allowing developers
        to work with Java objects rather than SQL queries.

        Portability: JPA is designed to be portable across different ORM frameworks, making it easier to
        switch between different implementations if needed.

        Standard: JPA is a standard defined by the Java Community Process (JCP), and it is part of the
        Java EE (Enterprise Edition) specification.

    Hibernate:
        Specification: Hibernate is a framework that implements the JPA specification.

        Abstraction: Hibernate provides a more comprehensive and feature-rich implementation of JPA,
        offering additional functionality and optimizations.

        Performance: Hibernate is known for its performance optimizations, such as caching, lazy loading,
        and batch processing.

        Extensions: Hibernate offers extensions and additional features beyond the JPA specification,
        such as HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and Criteria API.

        Community: Hibernate has a large and active community, which contributes to its development and
        provides extensive documentation and support.

In summary, JPA is a specification that defines a standard API for ORM, while Hibernate is a framework
that implements the JPA specification. Hibernate provides a more comprehensive and feature-rich
implementation of JPA, but JPA itself is a standard that can be implemented by other frameworks as well.